***********
Manual Mode
***********

.. note::
   This section is for advanced users and debugging. Most users will find that
   automatic mode covers their needs, and is much simpler. See the
   :doc:`quickstart` for information on running a normal game of Alice is
   Missing in automatic mode.

Manual mode allows the facilitator finer control over how a game runs by
waiting for the user to call certain functions instead of having the bot
call them automatically. The following features are enabled in manual mode:

* Choosing which poster of Alice is sent out
* Reshuffling the motive/clue cards
* Reassigning clue times
* Manual clue pulling, including allowing players to ignore the bot's clue
  assignments and draw any clue at any time


Enabling Manual Mode
====================

To display the current gameplay mode,
run ``!auto`` with no arguments. To enable manual mode,
run ``!auto off``. To turn automatic mode back on again, simply enter the
command ``!auto on``. This should be done before running ``!init``.

.. note::
   Manual mode commands are hidden from ``!help`` while in automatic mode.
   To see them in the list, run ``!help`` after calling ``!auto off``.


Alice
=====

In automatic mode, the bot will send a random poster during initialization.
However, it will not choose one in manual mode. To choose a random poster
and send it, call ``!alice``. To choose a specific poster to send, call it
with a number from 1-10, e.g. ``!alice 4``. The posters can be found in
``[White-Rabbit]/resources/images/[LANGUAGE]/posters/``, where
``[White-Rabbit]`` is the bot's root directory, and ``[LANGUAGE]`` is the key
for the desired language, e.g. ``en`` for English. This command must be run
before starting the game.


Motives
=======

In manual mode, the bot will not assign motives automatically. To shuffle the
motive cards, run ``!shuffle_motives``. The output will be logged in the
console, so you can see which motives have been given to which characters.
You may run this as many times as you wish. When you are happy with the
motives, send the cards to the players' clue channels by calling
``!send_motives``.


Clue Setup
==========

Clue setup can be done in the same way as in automatic mode, by
calling ``!setup_clues``, or you may manually shuffle the clue piles and times.
To assign clue times, call ``!assign_times``. To shuffle which clues get
pulled at the specific times, call ``!shuffle_clues``. As with
``!shuffle_motives``, these commands can be run as many times as you like,
and the output will be logged to console, and the bot will not send the
assigned times for each character to ``#player-resources`` until you call
``!print_times`` (the choices for the clues are never sent to the chat).


Gameplay
========

After setup, gameplay proceeds normally. However, players will have to draw
their clues by hand. For example, if the timer is at 45 minutes and you have
the 45 minute clue, you would call ``!clue 45``. If enough time has passed
after a player was supposed to draw their clue and the clue has not been
drawn, the bot will send a reminder to their clues channel.

.. note::
   In manual mode, any player can draw any clue at any time. This allows the
   players to decide amongst themselves who gets which clues, overriding the
   distribution generated by the bot. However, they should be careful not to
   draw clues out of order or draw any individual clue multiple times, as this
   may cause issues with gameplay and will likely also break the PDF export
   functionality. Also note that the PDF export relies on no player having
   more than three clues, not including the 90 minute clue given to Charlie
   Barnes.
